- [Instructor] The majority of changes in JAVA 13
were not language or API changes, however,
this version did deliver an exciting
new preview feature: TextBlocks.
A TextBlock is a new type of literal
that makes it easier to work with multi-line strings.
In the past, multi-line strings required us to use
concatenation operators and special escape sequences
for quotation marks and new lines,
making them difficult to read and write.
With TextBlocks, we can remove this clutter from our code
and it becomes easier to complete tasks
involving multi-line strings such as
when we word with JSON.
So let's build our first TextBlock.
To do that, I'm going to declare a new variable
of type String and I'll name it multilineText.
Then, in order to start the TextBlock,
we're going to place our opening delimiter
and it's going to be three quotation marks.
After the three quotation marks, we're going to specify
a line terminator by hitting Enter,
and then you'll notice the closing delimiter
of three quotation marks was placed for us by the IDE.
We simply add a semi-colon after that
and we not have a TextBlock.
So essentially, a TextBlock is declared
by an opening delimiter of three quotation marks,
a line terminator, and then a closing delimiter
of three quotation marks.
Within the block, we can go ahead and add content
such as our JSON without adding
any sort of concatenation or escaping.
So I'll just go ahead, write our JSON content here,
and you'll notice how much easier it is
to add this multi-line content into our code.
Okay, so there we have our JSON and what we're
going to do next is take a look at the TextBlock
being printed to the console.
So I'm going to navigate over to our unittest
and here, I'll just right-click on the first test
and go to Runas jUnitTest.
Now let's take a look here, at several things
in our output.
First, you'll notice that we had a newLine character
that was appended to the end of our TextBlock.
And then you also notice the indentation
is pushing the block quite a bit to the right.
That can all be controlled with how we specify
our content in the TextBlock.
So the TextBlock's indentation is determined
by the left-most content in the TextBlock.
Now this does include the closing delimiter,
so here, you can see that we're going to indent
the content within our TextBlock this much
because our closing delimiter is a little bit
to the left of our curly braces.
Having our closing delimiter on a new line
is also going to cause a newLine character
to be added to our TextBlock.
If we want to avoid that, we place our closing delimiter
immediately after the last character in our TextBlock.
Now, if we did something like this,
we're going to get a lot of indentation
on that TextBlock.
But once we more the closing delimiter
to immediately follow our closing curly brace,
now the curly brace has become the left-most content
and we're only going to get this amount of indentation
on our TextBlock.
All the space to the left of our curly braces
will not be included.
So let's just take a look at the unitTest
and we can see the results of simply
moving that closing delimiter.
You'll notice we no longer have the indentation
on the content and we no longer have
that newLine character appended.
Okay, let's head back to our class and then
the other thing I want to point out
is that when we work with TextBlocks,
they have complete access to the String API,
in fact, they're interchangeable with strings.
So anywhere that we have a method that
expects a String as an argument,
we can supply a TextBlock, as well,
and here, you can see, using auto completion,
we have access to all those methods on String.
Okay, so we talked a little bit about how the indentation
works on a TextBlock.
What if you wanted to apply that same logic
to a regular string?
Well, in order to do that, they added a new method
to the String API and that method is stripIndent.
And this will cause all the logic
we just talked about for how you indent a TextBlock
to be applied to a regular string.
So you'll notice we have some white space
to the left of our curly braces
within this traditional multi-line string.
And when we print out this content
to the console, because we have invoked
the stripIndent method, it's going to be removed.
So let's go to our second unitTest
and I'm going to execute that,
and you'll notice before we invoked stripIndent,
we had the indentation, and then after invoking it,
it was removed as if this were a TextBlock.
Moving on to our next feature,
we're going to take a look at the translateEscapes method.
So you'll notice within this multi-line string
we have an escaped newLine character.
So if we were to print out the string to the console,
we'll see /n in the output
as opposed to getting a new line.
And you'll notice that we have it at several sections
within our content.
Now, using the translateEscapes method
we can treat these escaped characters as literals
and that will cause newLine to actually be inserted
into our content.
So let's go ahead and save that
and then we're going to right-click on our unitTest
and execute it.
And here, you'll see that before we invoked
the translateEscapes method, we got our \n,
however, once we invoked the translateEscapes method
the escaped newLine characters were treated as literals
and now we have actual new lines in our content.
Okay, and the final method we're going to take
a look at is the formatted method.
And the formatted method was added to the String API
as a preview feature.
Everything we've looked at is a preview feature.
And it's just a more concise way of calling string.format.
So you're familiar with string.format
where we're able to put placeholders into a string
and then substitute those placeholders with values.
So we'll take our multi-line text string
and we'll call the new formatted method
and all we need to do is pass in the values
we would like to substitute for the placeholders.
So once we have that in place, we'll head over
to our unitTest.
I'm going to execute the test and you'll notice
that our supplied values are substituted
for the placeholders in the string.
So that is a quick preview of some new language features
in API methods that may be coming
in a future JAVA version.
Remember, these were all preview features.
For developers that work frequently
with multi-line strings, these will be very welcome
additions to the language.